feat: What's Cooking With AI (#33)
Ordina-Group/JWorks-blog: _posts/2024-03-25-whats-cooking.md

---
layout: post
authors: [ayoub_ait_cheikh_ahmed, jonathan_moermans, febe_cap]
title: "Whats Cooking AI"
image: /img/2024-03-25-whatscooking/whatscooking-banner.jpg
tags: [AI, aws, internship, springAI, terraform, docker]
category: AI
comments: true
---

# Introduction

> In this article, we introduce "What's Cooking," a Chrome extension that helps you make recipes using AI. Just by clicking, you can see what recipes you can make with the stuff you have in your shopping basket.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this article, we introduce "What's Cooking," a Chrome extension that helps you make recipes using AI. At the click of a button, you can see what recipes you can make with the items you have in your shopping basket.
```

> We use fancy AI to figure out what recipes you might like based on your preferences and basket. In addition to just finding recipes, our AI actually creates new ones!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use fancy AI to figure out what recipes you might like based on your preferences and basket. In addition to just finding recipes, our application actually creates new ones!
```

We'll talk about how we built the extension, using stuff like Next.js for the part you see, Spring Boot for the behind-the-scenes stuff, and Amazon's cloud services to make sure everything runs smoothly. Plus, we'll explain how we set up everything step by step.

We'll also dive into how we tested different AI models to see which one worked best. It was like a taste test for AI! And along the way, we'll share the ups and downs we faced while working on this project.

So, join us as we explore the exciting world of AI in cooking, sharing our journey and discoveries along the way.

> # Table of contents

Reviewer: Table of contents als eerste plaatsen

- [Introduction](#introduction)

> - [Table of contents](#table-of-contents)

Reviewer: Deze verwijzing moet je niet toevoegen

- [Our Project (DRAFT - Febe)](#our-project-draft---febe)
- [Used Technologies](#used-technologies) - [Frontend](#frontend) - [Backend](#backend) - [AWS Services](#aws-services) - [CI/CD Pipeline](#cicd-pipeline) - [AI Models](#ai-models)
- [Application Architecture (DRAFT - Febe)](#application-architecture-draft---febe)
- [Leveraging AI (DRAFT - Jonathan)](#leveraging-ai-draft---jonathan)
- [AI Benchmarking](#ai-benchmarking)
  - [Benchmarking comparison between models](#benchmarking-comparison-between-models)
  - [Benchmarking OpenAi ChatGPT](#benchmarking-openai-chatgpt)
  - [Benchmarking Bedrock Titan](#benchmarking-bedrock-titan)
  - [Benchmarking Cohere Command](#benchmarking-cohere-command)

>   - [Benchmarking Meta Llama2](#benchmarking-meta-llama2)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Benchmarking](#ai-benchmarking)
  - [Comparison between models](#benchmarking-comparison-between-models)
  - [OpenAI ChatGPT](#benchmarking-openai-chatgpt)
  - [Amazon's Titan](#benchmarking-bedrock-titan)
  - [Cohere Command](#benchmarking-cohere-command)
  - [Meta Llama2](#benchmarking-meta-llama2)
```

- [Conclusion (DRAFT - Jonathan)](#conclusion-draft---jonathan)
- [Our experience](#our-experience)

# Our Project (DRAFT - Febe)

> For our internship project, we dished out something delightful: "What's Cooking with ChatGPT."

Reviewer: Zorg dat je overal dezelfde titel gebruikt voor je project. In de introductie gebruiken jullie "What's Cooking".

Imagine a Chrome extension that serves up AI-crafted recipes based on your online shopping list.

To cook up this magic, we crafted custom web scrapers to gather data from major Belgian online retailers like Colruyt, Delhaize, Albert Heijn, and Aldi.

In the backend (our Java setup), we seamlessly integrated Spring AI, opening the door to a variety of AI models, including heavy hitters like OpenAI's ChatGPT, Command by Cohere, Meta's LLama2 and Amazon's Titan.

On the frontend, we spruced up the user interface with React and Next.js. Initially simple, just spitting out recipes, but soon we added a pinch of customization, letting users fine-tune preferences like dietary restrictions and culinary whims.

But hold onto your chef's hat! We also added a nifty feature that conjures up a snapshot of what your dish might look like. And, of course, you can save those recipe gems for later in a convenient text file.

> # Used Technologies

Author: Gezien dat dit vooral qua content een opsomming is zou ik dit onderwerp als laatste zetten.

# Used Technologies

### Frontend

- **Next.js:** A React framework that enables functionalities such as server-side rendering and generating static websites, enhancing SEO, performance, and user experience.

- **Chakra UI:** A simple, modular and accessible component library that provides the building blocks to build React applications with speed and ease.

### Backend

- **Spring Boot:** Simplifies the development of new Spring applications through convention over configuration, offering a wide range of functionalities for modern web services.

- **Spring AI:** Spring AI is a framework for building AI applications in Java, inspired by Spring principles for ease of development.

- **LLM (Large Language Models):** Offers advanced capabilities in natural language processing, understanding, generation, and translation, enabling sophisticated interaction and content creation.

### AWS Services

- **ECR (Elastic Container Registry):** Provides a Docker container registry that makes it easy for developers to store, manage, and deploy Docker container images.

> - **ECS (Elastic Container Service):** A fully managed container orchestration service that makes it easy to run, stop, and manage containers on a cluster.

Reviewer: Gebruiken jullie ECS?

- **App Runner:** Provides a managed service for developers to quickly deploy containerized web applications and APIs, without dealing with infrastructure management.

> - **Secret Manager:** Helps to protect access to applications, services, and IT resources without the upfront cost and complexity of managing a full infrastructure.

Reviewer: De beschrijving hiervan is voor mij wat onduidelijk. Ik zou eerder iets zeggen als:

```suggestion
- **Secrets Manager:** Allows you to easily store and manage confidential information, such as passwords and access keys.
```

- **DynamoDB:** A fast and flexible NoSQL database service for all applications that need consistent, single-digit millisecond latency at any scale.

- **API Gateway:** Offers a fully managed service that makes it easy for developers to create, publish, maintain, monitor, and secure APIs at any scale.

> - **API Gateway API Key:** Utilized for controlling and monitoring API usage and access, enhancing security and usage metrics.

Reviewer: Zeg hier ook dat je die API Key hebt toegevoegd a.d.h.v. een usage plan.

### CI/CD Pipeline

- **GitHub Workflows:** Automates your software development workflows.

> - **Terraform:** An infrastructure as code software tool that allows you to build, change, and version infrastructure safely and efficiently.

Reviewer: Hoort niet echt onder CI/CD. Dit is eerder `Infrastructure`.

### AI Models

- **OpenAI Models:** Provides advanced AI models like GPT (Generative Pre-trained Transformer) for natural language understanding, generation, and conversational AI capabilities.

- **AWS AI Model Bedrock Titan:** Bedrock Titan AI is a suite of large language models offered by Amazon for building generative AI applications.

- **Cohere Command:** Cohere Command is a powerful language model designed for enterprises, excelling at following instructions and completing complex tasks.

> - **Meta Llama2:** Meta Llama2 is a next-generation large language model known for its commercial-grade capabilities and open-source availability.

Reviewer: Verschillende beschrijving voor elk model hoeft niet echt. In se zijn dit allemaal language models. Enkel wanneer jullie extra features ervan (bv image generation) hebben gebruikt, zou ik dit nog expliciet vermelden.

# Application Architecture (DRAFT - Febe)

In our project, we implemented CI/CD to streamline the deployment process of our backend.

This was achieved by leveraging various tools offered by different providers such as GitHub and Amazon Web Services (AWS).

Initially, we began by writing workflow files to automate the execution of tests with each push to the development branch on GitHub.

Over time, this progressed into developing workflow files aimed at building and deploying our backend onto App Runner, thereby enabling seamless access to our backend without the necessity of local execution.

Within our GitHub workflow files, we designed jobs dedicated to constructing Docker images using Maven, facilitating the subsequent pushing of the latest backend image to Amazon Elastic Container Registry (ECR).

> Following the image push to ECR, we employed Terraform to deploy this image onto App Runner.

Reviewer: Terraform wordt gebruikt voor het opzetten van de services op AWS. Ik zou dit hier iets duidelijker zeggen.

To streamline the orchestration of these jobs, which were authored in separate files for organizational clarity, we utilized a main workflow file to dictate the sequence in which the jobs were to be executed.

In our pursuit of enhancing backend security on App Runner, we opted to integrate an API Gateway.

This gateway serves as a protective layer, mandating that all frontend requests transit through it and ensuring access to the backend only if the appropriate key is present in the request headers.

> 

Reviewer: Voeg hier ook zeker een diagram toe van de infrastructuur die jullie hebben opgezet.
draw.io is een goeie tool om dit te maken.

# Leveraging AI (DRAFT - Jonathan)

> In our application, the backend receives data via HTTP-request delivered by the Chrome plugin. It then carries out various operations on this data, with most of them leveraging AI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In our application, the backend receives data via HTTP-requests delivered by the Chrome plugin. It then carries out various operations on this data, with most of them leveraging AI.
```

The first operation is cleaning the data by removing undesired elements.

> In our context, this means sifting out inedible ingredients from a collection of potentially edible ones.

Reviewer: Voeg hier ook toe hoe je deze sifting doet. Gebruik je hiervoor ook AI of data die je zelf verzameld hebt?

Once we have this refined list of ingredients, we move on to our second operation, which involves generating a recipe. The AI model must consider all user-provided recipe requirements and consistently format its responses. Failure to do so could result in the AI model's responses being challenging to reliably parse into objects in a Java environment.

To address this issue, there are two potential solutions.

The first approach entails creating a custom AI model, allocating sufficient resources, and training it to align with your specific use case. Although the setup process may demand more time and resources, it could streamline prompt messages and decrease the number of tokens used in AI operations.

> The second approach involves utilizing a standard AI model while supplying it with detailed prompt messages. This method simplifies the comparison of your AI model's out-of-the-box performance, a convenience we appreciated in our study. Given that prompts are stateless, we must furnish all necessary information, instructions, and context with each prompt. To ensure proper formatting of the AI model's responses, we implemented a prompting technique known as "few-shot prompting." Essentially, with few-shot prompting, you provide the AI model with an example question and answer from which it can discern a pattern. For this approach, we devised a template encompassing all required information.

Reviewer: "This method simplifies the comparison of your AI model's out-of-the-box performance, a convenience we appreciated in our study." Wat bedoel je hier juist mee?

Author: De hele alinea zou het contrast moeten veruidelijken met "the first approach". Namelijk dat we met de Few-Shot Prompting techniek geen complexe training of geavanceerde configuratie nodig hebben om de AI output te sturen. Hiermee kunnen we dus eenvoudiger de verschillende AI modellen vergelijken in hun standaard configuratie, zonder dat ze specifiek getrained zijn op maaltijden, voeding of recepten.

Ik heb de alinea herschreven naar:
The second approach involves utilizing a standard AI model while supplying it with detailed prompt messages. **Using this method does not require complex training nor advanced configuration of AI models, allowing us to compare their out-of-the-box performance.** Given that prompts are stateless, we must furnish all necessary information, instructions, and context with each prompt.

> The second approach involves utilizing a standard AI model while supplying it with detailed prompt messages. This method simplifies the comparison of your AI model's out-of-the-box performance, a convenience we appreciated in our study. Given that prompts are stateless, we must furnish all necessary information, instructions, and context with each prompt. To ensure proper formatting of the AI model's responses, we implemented a prompting technique known as "few-shot prompting." Essentially, with few-shot prompting, you provide the AI model with an example question and answer from which it can discern a pattern. For this approach, we devised a template encompassing all required information.

Reviewer: Voeg een referentie toe naar een bron over few-shot prompting.

---
layout: post

> authors: [ayoub-ait-cheikhahmed, jonathan, febe]

Reviewer 2: Zorgen dat de namen overeenkomen met de authors.yaml

title: "Whats Cooking AI"
image: /img/2024-03-25-whatscooking/whatscooking-banner.jpg
tags: [AI, aws, internship, springAI, terraform, docker]
category: AI
comments: true
---

# Table of contents

- [Table of contents](#table-of-contents)
- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Application Architecture](#application-architecture)
- [Leveraging AI (DRAFT - Jonathan)](#leveraging-ai-draft---jonathan)
- [AI Benchmarking](#ai-benchmarking)
- [Conclusion (DRAFT - Jonathan)](#conclusion-draft---jonathan)

# Introduction

> To align with the new trend of generative AI models we created What'sCooking which is an application where users can easily extract their shopping basket items with a click. These items undergo analysis by advanced AI, which then suggests personalized recipes based on the user's inventory. The AI filters the ingredients to ensure the suggestions align with the user's preferences.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To align with the new trend of generative AI models, we created What'sCooking, an application where users can easily extract their shopping basket items with a click.
Advanced AI analyzes these items and then suggests personalized recipes based on the user's inventory.
The AI filters the ingredients to ensure the suggestions align with the user's preferences.
```

The purpose is to test the usage of AI that generates new human-readable content rather than finding or classifying existing content. This falls under the category of LLMs. More explanations about this will be provided in upcoming sections. Furthermore, the purpose of Prompt Engineering and how it can make a big difference when tweaking communication with a large chat model will be discussed.

> The application doesn't stop at recommendations; it dynamically generates images of suggested recipes. Users can also personalize their experience on the Preferences page, specifying dietary restrictions and culinary preferences. Powered by LLM, generative AI, and AWS for deployment, the app is at the forefront of innovation. Continuous updates ensure optimization of pricing, performance benchmarking, and accommodation of diverse user requests.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The application doesn't stop at recommendations; it dynamically generates images of suggested recipes.
On the Preferences page, users can also personalize their experience by specifying dietary restrictions and culinary preferences. 
Powered by LLM, generative AI, and AWS for deployment, the app is at the forefront of innovation.
Continuous updates ensure optimization of pricing, performance benchmarking, and accommodating diverse user requests.
```
